How many types of applications are there in general?
There are 4 types of applications are there at an high-level
1. standalone applications
2. distributed web applications
3. mobile applications
4. batch processing systems/applications

2. distributed web application (50%)
In distributed web application always we have #2 parts
1. server-side
Server-Side application is an network application, that receives the data/request over the network from clients perform business logic inorder to serve business services to the clients and dispatches the computed data as a response in HTML format back to the clients over the network.
	
To communicate in exchanging the data over the network, these applications using application protocol: HTTP/HTTPs

These applications are deployed or placed in Web Servers or Application Servers. These servers will differ based on the programming language in which these applications are implemented
1. java application = tomcat server etc
2. .net application = iis server (internet information server)
3. php application = lamp/ngnix server
4. angular/react = node server
5. python application = flask server
etc

These servers helps in receiving the data/request over the network, perform data extraction logic in passing the data to our application and takes the output generated by our application and dispatches it back to the client over the network. So the servers handles network aspects in receiving/dispatching the data, so our application only will have the logic for processing the data so building the application becomes easy

In addition if number of users accessing the application are more, we cannot run the application on one-single machine/computer since the resources of the computer like cpu/ram/storage is not sufficient. We need to run the application on several computers/servers. So inorder to distribute the user traffic towards our application across these servers we need LoadBalancer

How to deliver the application to the customers around the world?
1. server-grade computers
2. application servers/web server software
3. high-speed internet
4. network infrastructure in running the applications on multiple computers
	
2. client-side
The people/customers around the world, inorder to use the server application needs client programs for interacting in sending the data and receving the HTML data that is send by server application. For this the customers needs to have web browsers that acts as client software for interacting with the server application
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Mobile Application
The Mobile applications are built to run on small-scaled hand-held devices like mobiles/tab etc. These applications are build on mobile platform technologies like
1. android = there are lot of frameworks are availble like Android SDK written in Kotlin.
2. ios = swift programming

usually these mobile applications communicates with server application in performing business operation and storage of data centrally.
	
How does the mobile applications are distributed to the customers?
These mobile applications are packaged and distributed through app/play stores of the respective platforms. The manufacturers of the mobile applications will publish in app/play store.
The users of the mobile browse these apps downloads and installs on their mobile devices to use them. These applications runs on individual customer mobile devices.	
They dont need any infrastructure to run.
	
	
#4. batch processing applications
These are the applications that performs backend jobs within an organization, usually scheduled to execute at regular interval of time. These applications are internal to the organization and cannot be exposed/accessed by the customers around the world.
These applications deals with huge volumes of data in performing operations and reflect them against the business.
	
how do we deliver these applications?
1. Since these applications will not be accessible to the customers around the world, these are hosted on internal servers of the organization itself
2. requires networking
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From the above we can understand for running/delivering the distributed web applications or server-side applications or batch processing systems they need
1. infrastructure
2. network
3. internet
4. software packages and tools

How does an business organization can host/run the distributed web applications to offer their business services to the customer around the world?
The process of running these distributed web applications on an central server computer and making them accessible to the people around the world is called "hosting the application"	
	
To host these applications the business organization can use In-house hosting.
	
1. In-house hosting (era#1)
The business organization can choose the option of in-house hosting which is also called as "on-premise" (run at your own hardware) in running the application so that it will be available to the people around the world to use the business services.

in-house/on-premise = means the business organization runs the software application within their own hardware devices of their own organization boundaries

To run and make the application available to their customers they need the below things:

1.1 infrastructure:
	1.1.1 server grade computer machines with high-capacity cpu, memory and storage that can handle large number of users 
	1.1.2 an air condition room in which we can install these hardware devices to run them
	1.1.3 network devices like high speed routers (gigabyte routers), switches, firewalls etc to inter-connect these devices in running the applications
	1.1.4 high-speed leased internet lines for exposing the applications that are running on the hardware along with an backup internet line if the primary line is down
	1.1.5 additional back hardware (like servers, switches, routers) etc incase if any hardware failure encountered to switch the devices 
	1.1.6 24/7 power backup to ensure zero downtime of the application
	
1.2 software/human resource requirements:	
	1.2.1 the organization has to procure licensed versions of the softwares like operating systems, language libraries etc to run the software applications
	1.2.2 need system administration team that takes care of assembling, maintaining and monitoring the server grade computers. in addition this team will be responsible for installing, configuring the operating system and software packages onto these computers so that these machines are ready for running the application
	1.2.3 networking team to setup network infrastructure inter-connecting the computers and making them accessible over the internet
	1.2.4 application support engineering team that works round the clock 24/7 that takes care of deployments and monitoring the application on the production server environment
	1.2.5 security team that certifies the infrastructure, network and applications ensuring those are secured and not compromised
	1.2.6 in addition these people should coordinate and work together in ensuring the new versions of the softwares are rolled-out periodically and takes care of patching/upgrading the underlying operating system or software packages
	
this approach of deploying/delivering and running the software applications has lot of problems:
1. the investment cost involved in setting up the infrastructure and procuring hardware resources/devices in running the application is very huge
2. the time required for setting up the infrastructure like
	1. air-conditioned rooms
	2. server machine setup
	3. network setup
	etc
	is very high
for eg.. the development team has develped the application for 6 months, now to get this application ready for release we might need addition 3/4 months of time for procuring, setup, installation, configuration etc that delays the business
3. the cost involved in procuring the licensed softwares like operating systems, software packages are very huge
4. hiring the manpower in running and maintaining the applications is challenging
5. the cost of maintainance of the application is very huge since we need multiple teams to work together 24/7 like
	1. administration team
	2. networking team
	3. application support team
	4. security team
	etc

considering all these above factors into account, running an software application on an in-house infrastructure is not an feasible solution for small/moderate business vendors and might be only possible for enterprise organizations only


#2. web hosting providers





















































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	


































































































































