#2. Database domain
There are 5 services are there under database domain
1. RDS Service (Relational database service)
Aspart Relational database service, the aws cloudplatform supports provisioning various different database vendor softwares like oracle, mysql, postgres etc and provides it as an PaaS service to the customers.
	
2. Aurora db
Aurora database is an RDS service that is built ontop of mysql server which performs 5x faster interms of performance and data transfers when compared with mysql server

3. Dynamo db
It is an no-sql database that is built by aws cloud platform and provided it as an service on aws cloud. we can store petabytes of data in dynamodb and it is higly scalable database

4. Elastic Cache
It is an distributed cache system provided aspart of aws cloud platform to implement server-side caching in applications

5. Redshift
Database warehouse service used for processing and analyzing the data and generate reports
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is database management system, why do we need a database management system?
The business organization always generates data, the data that is generated by the organization has to be stored permanently for longer amount of time, so that we can perform various different types of operations on the data inorder to provide business services to the customers.
	
How does the business organization can store the data permanently?
The business organization can store/write the data physically on the paper media like ledger, sales books, petty cashbooks etc, so that they can keep the data permanently and use it at later point of time.
But there are lot of dis-advantages in storing the data on the physical medium like papers:
1. The information/data that is written on the paper may not be legitimate and cannot be readable or understandable by the other people
2. The paper has wear and tear and the data would be faded or lost over the time
3. if the data grows, identifying, searching the data becomes very complex
4. incase of lost, we cannot restore or recover it
5. the information written on paper/book is not secured and anyone can read or steal it

From the above we can understand there are lot of problems in storing the data on physical mediums like paper/books etc, since the business data is huge and should be stored for longer amount of time, instead of storing on pysical mediums like papers/books, the computer storage devices are introduced.
	
How to store the data permanently on a computer system?
The computer systems allows us to permanently store the data on the storage devices like harddisk, pendrives, floppy and cd devices. These are called secondary storage devices or permanent storage devices of the computer. once the data has been stored into these devices, it remains permanent unless we delete or remove it explicitly.
	
The operating system of the computer uses FileSystem technics in storing, organizing and accessing the data from the permanent storage devices of the computer.
The FileSystems allows us to store the data interms of
1. Files = file is an logical & named memory location on the harddisk where we can store bytes of data inside it.
2. Folders = collection or group of related files kept together to locate and access quickly


1. File
File is an datastructure that represents or holds the bytes of data that is stored on the harddisk of the computer. Each file would be given an name, that can be used as an identity for referring and accessing the data from the storage device

2. Folder
Folder is a group/collection of related files put together, so that those can be quickly located and access from the Filesystem of the computer
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are lot of advantages of storing the data on the permanent storage device of the computer rather than writing the data on they physical medium like paper as below:
advantage:-
	1. data is legitimate, since anyone records the information in the Files of the computer in the standard character format itself. So there is a guarantee everyone can understand the data
	2. There is no wear and tear for the data that is stored on the storage device of the computer like an physical paper medium. 
	3. In the event of crash of the physical storage device, always there are plenty of mechanisms available in restoring or retrieving the data from them 
	4. searching, locating and identifying the data can be done through the help of computer operating system utilities like textpads, notepads or commands provided by operating system
	5. the data that is stored in the Filesystem of the computer is secured, unless the user has access to the computer, he cannot access the data within the files of the computer
	6. The programs that are running on the computer can quickly read the data that is stored interms of Files on the storage device of the computer to perform operations on that data.
		
From the above we can understand instead of storing the data on the physical paper medium, it is recommended to store the data on the permanent storage devices of the computer itself, so that it is secured, and can be quickly accessed by the programs to process the data.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How many ways we can store the data on the permanent storage devices of the computer?
There are 2 ways we can store the data on the harddisk of the computer
1. humans by themself can use the operating system utilities like
	1.1 text editors (notepad, wordwrap)
	1.2 third-party softwares like ms-office etc
in manually storing and using the data from the files of the computer

2. software programs can store the data can be accessed to perform various different types of operations on this data.
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
	
	






































	
	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	






































