no-sql database
There are limitations or dis-advantages with RDBMS databases 
1. only suitable for storing structured data where all the records of data has fixed and same number of fields defined. These are poor at handling semi-structed data. If we try storing semi-structured data we run into problems like
	1.1 huge wastage of memory
	1.2 or due to complex schema model being designed to handle semi-structured data, we would end up complexity querying and programming the data
	
What is semi-structed data?
each record or entity has different sets of data fields being stored, so the columns of data being stored is not same across all the data.
	
To store and manage semi-structured data, the no-sql or semi-structured databases are introduced. These databases supports 
1. storing and processing the semi-structured data
2. no relationships being defined across the data
3. no transactionality, so that we can achieve highest-level of concurrency

There are lot of no-sql database management systems built and provided by various different players or vendors in the market
1. mongodb
2. casendra
3. couchdb
4. graphdb
5. cockroach db
6. dynamodb
7. oracle bigdata

Each of these databases has their own model of representing/storing the data. Each of these has their own languages in querying and fetching the data as well.
	
In Mongodb
we can image an Collection      = table in RDBMS
                Document        = record in the table
key/value (varied per document) = all the records has fixed-set of columns
key attribute acts as an identified of the doc in the collection = primary key acts as an identifier for identifying an record in a table

relationships are represented
-> documents across the collections are related using key as references = primary keys/foreign keys are used for establishing relationships
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Object-storage databases


relational database management system
1. tables = that accomodate text and binary objects of data also within them
problems:
















































